Week 2 Post

This week’s readings focused on the accessibility of information online. 

The need for storing large quantities of data was a product of World War , as explained in “As We May Think.” Scientific research was incredibly active during this time period, and the general public demanded that these findings be accessible to all. Not only that, but scientists themselves needed faster, more accurate methods to share and store their data. This lead to the higher quality cameras and film processes, more complex calculators, and the invention of “associative indexing”, where any item can be selected immediately and automatically select another.

In “Information Management: A Proposal,” Berners-Lee, the “web” as we know it was created in order to develop a system of information organization. This “web” would link nodes and keywords to each other. In the display, this web would be presented through hypertext, hypermedia, and hotspots. These definitions and importance of these terms are explored through “What Hypertext Is”. As defined by Ted Nelson, hypertext can access a branch/perform on the request of the user. Hypermedia is the branching or performance of a request, but in nontext form (pictures, videos, etc.). A hotspot is an icon that appears when one hovers over hypertext/hypermedia, usually giving a description of what is being presented. Hypertext has become the foundation of web display: accessible from different systems and able to update live.

“The Design of Browsing and Berrypicking Techniques for the Online Search Interface” goes into depth on online search. The article emphasizes, “the more different strategies searchers can use an information store, the more retrieval effectiveness and efficiency is possible.” Thus, allowing for a diversity of search methods make the search process feel more natural to the user.

These readings have shown us how the internet has become a wealth of knowledge. This development has many possible ramifications on the future of education, as the internet is making resources more affordable and accessible. In “Computer Lib/Dream Machines”, the authors postulates on how computer assisted instruction (CAI) can be improved. 

CAI models closely follow existing educational apps today. Duolingo, for example, organizes the learning process into different subjects, testing the student in mandatory quizes, and heavily relies on repetition and positive reinforcement (in the form of dialogue or points). A critique of this model is that the student is purely result-driven, diminishing their initial curiosity or passion for learning. These flaws all stem from a lack of control on the students part. The learning process should be designed in such a way where the student is in control of what they learn, what they are tested on, and to what extent. This optimizes learning on their own terms. 

A key line in this piece that I strongly identify with is, ““Repetition and reinforcement are not important if the student hates what they are doing.” Technology cannot improve lives if it is modeled on the flawed systems of reality. The internet offers a unique capacity to overcome structural flaws in our educational system.


Bush, V. (1948). “As we may think.: The Atlantic Monthly, 101-108.
Nelson, T.H. (2003 [1974]). Excerpts from “Computer Lib/Dream Machines.” In N. Wardrip- Fruin and N. Montfort (Eds.), The New Media Reader, pp. 303-338.
Bates, M. (1989) “The Design of Browsing and Berrypicking Techniques for the Online Search Interface”
Berners-Lee, T. (1989) “Information management: A proposal.”
Wardrip-Fruin, N. (2004) “What Hyer-text is”
